Assignment 1. 

Topic 1:Topics Covered  :

Working with data types
String, int, float, double
-	
1.	Display the message, ‘Lincoln said: "Four score and seven years ago"’.
2.	Read a double find its square root and display it.
3.	Write a program to display the message, “Welcome to Basic Java”. To do this, define a string array greeting, store each word (say Welcome) in the separate array element of array greeting and then display the above message using the array.
4.	Declare and initialize an integer array, myarray. Display the total number of integers in the array and also the individual array elements.
5.	Read 5 words from the command line and display the average length of each word.
6.	Read a two-dimensional integer array from the user. Display the array length as well as the number of elements in each row.
7.	Declare and initialize two float arrays f1 and f2. Copy the contents of f1 to f2. Display the contents of f2.
8.	Write a java application called operation. The application takes three arguments from the command line; the first and the third arguments are float values and the second argument is an arithmetic operation like +, -, *, and /. In the application, perform the required operation on the float values and display the result. 
9.	Write a java application that calculates the retirement time for a person. Before calculating, ask the user how much money he needs after retirement, yearly how much he can contribute and the rate of interest. At the end of every year his accumulated balance amount will be, 
New balance = (prev balance + yearly contribution) * (1 + interest/100); 
10.	Read an array of integers. Sort them using any sorting technique and display the sorted array.
11.	Read some arguments from the command line and display total number of digits and characters in the arguments.
12.	Read month and year (as numbers) from the command line and display number of days in that month. To do, write a function to check whether a given year is a leap year and use this to display appropriate number of days.
13.	Read a string of four characters from the user and display all the possible combinations of the characters. E.g. if the characters in the string are A,T, R and E then the possible combinations would be ATRE, ARTE, ATER etc…Note that the character should not repeat in a combination.


Topic 2:Topics Covered  :

Classes and Objects
1.	Define a class Employee with three data members, name, salary and date of joining. Write the constructor to initialize the data members. Add two member functions. A member function to raise the salary by given percentage and another to display the name, salary and year of joining.
Define and initialize an array of objects of class Employee. Give a 10 percent rise in the salaries of all employees and display the results of each one of them.

2.	Define a class Manager which extends from the above class Employee. Define a data member secretaryname in the Manager class. Write member functions to set and get the secretary name. Override the raisesalary method for the Manager class such that, ½ % bonus is calculated for every year of his employment and his salary is raised by given percentage plus the total bonus percentage. E.g. if the manger has joined in 1997 and raise percentage is 10 then his salary should be raised by 10+(1/2 * (2001-1997)). 

Define an object of Manager class and initialize the data members. Call the raisesalary method and verify. 

3.	Define objects of the class Employee(Defined in 1) and initialize them. Arrange the employees in the ascending order of their salaries and display the salaries with names. 

4.	Define an abstract class Vehicle with single abstract function noofwheels which returns an integer. Extend from these two other classses Car and Truck. Override the abstract method in Car class to return no of wheels as 4 and for Truck, no. of wheels as 8.
Instantiate objects of class Car and Truck. Using these instances display the messages “Car has --- wheels” and “Truck has --- wheels”.

5.	Define a class arrayoperations. Add two static member functions one for sorting the int array (parameter) and another for finding the minimum and maximum of an int array. 

Define a class arraytest to test the above class. Read an integer array. Use the above methods to sort the array and to find the min and max of the array.



 

Press a number to take action
	1. Insert a record
	2. Delete a record
	3. Update a record
	4. Display
	5. Exit
Scanner ( accept integer)
		if ( 1-4 -> take action
		5 - exit (system.exit)
		any thing else -> show same screen again
		
	1-> Insert a record
		accept -> Empno, ename, salary -> create a employee object
			array -> insert employee object
		
	2. Delete 
		Accept empno -> delete a record for that empno.
	3. Update
			accept empno, newename, newsalary
				search the record for empno, and change name and salary
	4. Display
			List of all records
			
		
		
